Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing and
show number 506. In this
episode, Scott talks with John Henry
from cofound, Harlem about today's
startup accelerator. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes today.
I'm talking with John Henry. He's
the managing director at cofound
Harlem. How are you, sir?
How am I? All right,
buddy. How about yourself? I'm
very well. Thanks for chatting
with me today. Folks can
find cofound, Harlem, cofound dot
C O very cool URL.
Nicely done. Nicely done. Now
I hear a lot of
words like accelerator incubator, startup
incubator. You don't like the
word incubator. I wouldn't say
I don't like it. I
think that actually I have
strong opinions about the whole
thing. I think that the
whole startup space right now
is full with kind of
with a lot of jargon.
And when I was looking
to start this project, it
was elusive to me what
the difference was. And as
I looked up a little
bit deeper, I see that
the difference is really my
new and it's kind of
up to the founders themselves
to determine what it is
that they'd like to be
called. But I will say
that in the primary difference
is that accelerators are usually
a lot more intense and
rigorous and tend to be
shorter in length and oftentimes
invest in the companies, not
necessarily. So for people who
don't know what any of
this is, that there is
a need, there's a company
out there, other companies. How
does that, does that work?
Do you take a piece
of them? Do you give
them a place to, to
start out to stay? How
does that process work? Sure.
Yeah, that's a great question.
So typically I'll speak, I
guess, on behalf of cofound,
Harlem, as opposed to accelerators
as a whole. What we
do is we seek promising
early stage companies from anywhere
and everywhere across the U
S and we provide them
with initially it was thousand
in kind office space and
world-class mentorship. So we were
really fortunate early on to
have some great mentors from
Google and New York times and
MSNBC. And what have you,
and what made co-fund Harlem
really different. And what gives
us a bit of a
social angle is that we
took zero equity from these
companies. And in exchange, the
companies commit to grow in
Harlem for a period of
four years after the initial
nine month program. And so
that's how we do it,
although we're, we're pivoting into
a bit of a different
thing, and I can talk
about that later, but for
the folks out there listening,
right this minute, there are
accelerators that more commonly do
something like they give you
$50,000 upfront. It's a three
month program and they might
take anywhere from five to
7% of equity in exchange
for essentially not only the
money, but the mentorship and
the time that they invest
into you. And the idea
is that, you know, they,
they kind of turn through
all these cohorts and they're
sort of gone and do
well. And eventually you might
see some upside if you
build good enough copies, You
know, there was a show
called all American inventors, kind
of like shark tank. You
know, they're, they're basically the
TV version, you know, which
isn't the real version of
these accelerators. And it, it
seems very, it all, I've
always felt that they take
such a large amount of
your company for such a
small, relatively small amount of
money. Like if you need
money, 50 grants, a lot
of money make no mistake.
50 is a lot of
money, but for 5%, for
7% of your company, it's
your seems a little bit,
I don't know, dangerous, like,
like I think it's cool
that you're really investing in
the community rather than the,
you know, the community first
and the company second almost.
Yeah, no, I agree. And
I certainly think that accelerators
can be a pitfall. In
fact, as I've been diving
into this pace quite a
bit, there are really, really
few accelerators that do a
good job at all. And
Y Combinator is certainly kind
of the poster child. They've
just done a phenomenal job
over the course of the
last 10 years, really setting
the bar for what it
means to build a successful
company. And so if anyone
out there is considering a
beginning of startup or, and
looking into an accelerator, I
do think that there are
some other solid ones out
there, but I certainly certainly
recommend doing your homework, because
like you said, 50,000, when
you're first starting out, 50
K seems kind of like
the end all be all,
but, but in truth, the
value of accelerators lies much
more in the network that
they provide for you and
the quality of mentors that
they can bring onto the
program. Now, forgive me. You
said something where you said
50,000 in kind, what does
that mean? So we have
a bunch of resources that
we offer our startups, I
E legal accounting, et cetera.
And usually these costs can
Mount up to quite a
bit in the early days.
And so what we did
was we got really creative
with value exchange, mostly because
we didn't really, we didn't
have the cash to offer
our startups. So we have
to offer some other type
of value and it really
worked out well because what
we ended up landing on
was nine months of free
office space, as opposed to
the standard three that you
see. And  in, in
kind, as I mentioned, and
great mentors in the type
program Kind though, for people
who maybe aren't don't have
English as their first language,
that means $50,000 in value
of services. Is that right?
Correct. Yes. Correct. So that
looks like potentially $15,000 of
legal services, let's say. And
especially when you're incorporating your
startup, it can be quite
expensive, so legal or accounting
services and software as well.
I know we've worked with
Microsoft and they offer hosting
for companies and Amazon does
as well, et cetera, et
cetera. I see. So you
could Be an accelerator where,
Hey, I've got this great
idea. I pitch you, you
write me a big check
for 50 grand. And I
go out and I got
to start hunting for tech,
startup lawyers and social media
strategists. And I pay them
what I think is the
right amount of money, but
ultimately you're cutting off. You're
almost cutting out the middleman
where the middleman is a
big pilot, Precisely, precisely. And
we thought that was certainly
very interesting. And although we're
just now finishing up our
first nine month cohort next
month, which we're very excited
about, but I'm taking this
kind of a different approach
to it has really, really
tightened up our business acumen
here at the program and
gotten us to hone in
on the things that matter
most because cash can be
a distraction. And it's an,
it's an interesting thing to
talk about and to look
at it in terms of
startups, raising cash and using
that as a metric for
success, I think that they
see the cash and they
want to buy computers and
office space. And if you
can remove that and simply
make the product. Exactly. Yeah.
You've got a list on
your, on your website. If
you go to cofound.co/accelerate for
the list of mentors and
this, this is a very
diverse group of talent from
all play all over. You've
got someone from rap genius,
get someone from NBC, someone
from Google are these volunteers,
are they, how do, how
do you have such a
fantastic and kind of illustrious
group of people, people from
the city of new? Yeah.
So thanks for that. I'm
sure they'd appreciate hearing that.
And in truth, the way
that I got a lot
of these people is just,
it's so funny. It's just
the way that it worked
out before I became an
entrepreneur, I was a doorman
and I was door Manning
at a building. That's just
so near and dear to
my heart. It's in Williamsburg,
Brooklyn on the waterfront there.
And it just so happened
to be a home, the
home of so many great
founders. So the founders of
rap genius live with and
the founders of Vox, he
lived there and the guy
from Dooney and Burke, and
really more than a handful
of these mentors live in
the building. And I was
always super, super earnest and
genuine and took pride in
my work. I think that's
something that came from my
parents having been immigrants. They
always taught me, John, whatever
you do do it really
well. And so when I
was door Manning, I was,
I was the best damn
door man. You could find,
you know, I would learn
your name, your kid's names,
your pets name, et cetera.
And so eventually I got
my first business opportunity to
start my first company. And
I went on and I
did that, but I stayed
in close touch with a
lot of these folks. And
I think that they couldn't
help, but to build this
emotional connection with kind of
my evolution as an entrepreneur,
from having run my first
startup and now doing this.
And so that's really what
kind of got the boat
rolling and the rest of
them. The cool thing about
doing a mission driven company
is that typically if the
mission is compelling enough, you
can get people to buy
into the vision and be
a little bit more forgiving
of the fact that there's
limited resources to begin with.
And so that, that has
been really key for us
as well. I believe Some
people say that it's, you
know, that it's the constraint
that drives innovation, right? If
you simply wrote up one
check for a million bucks,
they might create Totally agree.
The people who are the
mentors providing the in kind
value, get out of it,
are they volunteers or are
they just, they get the
sense that they're building it?
Yep. It's, it's been a
mixture of both right in
this minute though, as we're
looking towards our next cohort
and really making our offering
a bit more robust, we're
looking at a term called
entrepreneurs in residence where essentially
we'd be paying some, a
select group of these mentors
to be a little bit
more involved with the accelerator
program and, and hang around
a bit more. But as
of late, it's been, these
mentors are typically there's four
per company, four assigned per
company. And they allocate a
certain amount of time. Certainly
not anything too crazy, but
they allocate time to have
office hours with the startups.
And so for the companies
that works really well, if,
for instance, they're looking to
foster a relationship with the
New York times, or if they're
a media based company, as
an example, then some of
our methods here make good
connections for them. They can
just kind of groom their
growth as they go along,
et cetera. And they get
nothing in return really, other
than, other than just the
sense of building a community.
So For example, I could
potentially quit my job tomorrow
and go in and become
CTO at some startup. That
could be a job I
could have theoretically, or I
could become totally, but I
could become like one eighth
of a CTO or one,
four of a CTO. Right.
And give a new startup,
a slice of me and,
you know, eight hours a
week, something like that. Right.
That's a really, that's kind
of a fresh way to
look at it. Yeah. I'll
give you credit. I'll give
you credit. Okay, cool. So
that makes sense. So then
again, if you look at
the list here, you've got
people who have expertise in
dev ops, and you've got
education and tech, startup lawyering,
and all that kind of
stuff. As someone who joins
a cohort, you get access
to those people. And then
you are assigned, you know,
your, your four or five,
basically your, your, your team
gets bigger. You know, you
go from being a solo
cofounder to you'd have like
a support network. Totally, totally.
And we don't, we don't
typically like solo founders to
begin with, but, but you
can certainly see this as
a more robust kind of
extension of your team. Well,
let's talk about that idea
of this. You know, you
had a great article in
June of this year called
five ways to survive being
a solo founder, but you're
not a programmer, is that
correct? Correct. Because you can't
do everything right. You can't
necessarily be the business head
and be the tech head.
So how do you, do
you feel that there always
needs to be a tech
head and a business head?
Like how many different people
is like the sweet spot
for a startup? Great question.
So that really depends on,
there's a couple of key
variables here, and I think
it's highly dependent on the
ambition of the founder and
what this company means to
you. Right? So I think
that lately there's been a
lot of pressure. It seems
from the media and what
have you from the tech
crunches and the, and the
companies raising 15 million and 180 million
to go and be this
ginormous Uber like company. And
that's certainly a valid aspiration,
I think, and something that
really excites me as an
investor now, but, but also
let's not for every one
of those types of companies.
There's a hundred thousand, perhaps
that really just want to
have their own companies that
generate 200,000, 250,000, that they
can make a comfortable living
for themselves. And so I
think it first starts with
kind of that barometer. How
big do you want to
take this? And if you
do happen to fall into
the bucket of, okay, I've
thought about it and I
don't want to just make
200 K and, and make
enough for myself and my
spouse. I really want a
high growth startup. Then it's
all about what problem that
you're solving. And certainly we
hear a lot of talk
about the Y being more
important than the what. And
I totally agree with that,
but assuming that you've kind
of gone through these ranks
and you have a strong
why, and you're totally held
vents on this being high
growth, then I think that
the sweet spot is anywhere
from two to three. Anytime,
anytime you get into four
plus, I think you have,
and it's certainly not always
the case because one of
our portfolio companies is a
four person team, but you
suffer the risk of having
too many cooks in the
kitchen where it slows down
your decision making process and
what have you. And then
one person, I just don't
think it's enough to tackle
the workload of a startup.
So anywhere from two to
three is nice. And we
like to say a mixture
of like a hustler and
a hacker or a hustler
hacker designer usually makes a
really nice mix. Hansel minutes
is brought to you by
Braintree code for easy online
payments. If you're building a
mobile app and you're searching
for a simple payment solution,
check out Braintree, the brain
tree v.zero SDK makes it
easy to offer multiple mobile
payment types. So you can
start accepting PayPal, Apple pay
Bitcoin, Venmo, credit cards, and
more all with a single
integration, one small snippet of
code and your set up
in less than 10 minutes.
If you don't have time,
you can give them a
call. They'll even handle the
integration for you and walk
you through it. The SDK
supports seven languages, dotnet node,
Java, Perl, PHP, Python, and
Ruby elegant code clear documentation
to learn more. And for
your first $50,000 in transactions
fee free, go to brain
tree payments.com/hanselman that's Braintree payments.com/hanselman.
I think that within them
kind of the mythos and
the legends of startups and
they are just that there
are myths. There's, you know,
there's the Steve jobs. And
then the Wazniak where the
bill Gates and the, the
bomber, you know, there's the,
the hustler and the hacker.
And that does seem to
be a good, Yeah. Yeah.
I was going to piggyback
off of that and, and
just dive into, I wanted
to dive into this hustler
hacker thing, because I think
it's easy to say, but
one of the elephants in
the room, I believe is
this, this whole notion of
how does a nontechnical person
deal with a technical person?
What's that relationship like? What's,
you know, what kind of
lapses in communication are there?
What are some assumed knowledge
coming from both parties. And,
and I, I just would
love to dive into that.
I know most of the
audience listening right now are,
are fairly technical. And perhaps
they're kind of curious about
the business side of things.
Is it necessary? What's more
important. Who's more valuable. How
do I communicate the product
who has an unrealistic expectations,
et cetera, what do you
think There's this? You know,
there's that phrase wag the
dog, right? Is the dog
wagging the tail or is
a tail way in the
dog and sometimes feel like
technical people. And I am
definitely at fault, and this
is, well I've, I've done
this in the past, make
the tech because the tech
is cool. Right? And they
don't think about fundamentals. They
don't think about the business.
They don't think about marketing
it. I have a little
startup with that. I made
with my friend, Greg shackles.
We have, we are two
techies though. And we made
a dictation application. So you
can dictate into your iPhone
and it automatically, the dictation
goes into the cloud and
then drops into windows. Oh,
that's pretty neat. It's exactly.
That's like, Hey, that's cool.
But we don't have any
business knowledge. We, we struggled
to put the LLC together.
We still don't have the
lawyer thing worked out, honestly,
from a business perspective, we
have no business plan. We
just made something awesome. And
we just thought that it
would light the world on
fire. Right. It really didn't.
You know what I mean?
Just like, I still feel
like I could wake up
tomorrow. Maybe the world would
have been lit on fire
by our thing. But ultimately
that's a great example of,
you know, two techies making
a techie thing. And then
now we're disappointed that it
didn't change. Right, right, right.
And one of the things
that, that kind of came
to mind as you were
speaking is, again, it's so
incredibly important for the person
like self-awareness here is huge.
The person, the individual must
determine what it is that
they're looking to do. So
for a tech person, that's
just building really nifty products.
Like the arcade that you
have behind you and what
have you, that's totally fine.
Like there's a time and
a place for that. Amen.
If that's all you want
to do kind of on
the side while you work
your, your main gig, then,
then that's fine. However, if
you're looking, if you're actively
looking to build a business,
a startup, then I think
that this, this business acumen
becomes important. Although I differ
from a lot of folks
on this, I do think
that business people are less
and less valuable nowadays. I
do think that MBAs, I
don't know, they're, they're, they're
increasingly less relevant to how
business is conducted in now
now's world. And this is
as a business guy, but
what's, what's interesting for me
in my personal development is
my business acumen was not
developed through school. I dropped
out my first semester, my
business document was developed through
actually doing it. And I
do think that humans learn
in a very specific way.
You only get good at
doing exactly what you want
to do. And I'm sure
a lot of us have
heard this example of, you
know, let's say basketball or
golf. I can get tiger
woods to every hour of
every day that I'm awake
for years. Just speak to
me about putting the golf
ball. But until I go
out on that green and
do it myself, I'm not
going to get any better
at it. And so with
that said, with said, tech
folks who are interested in
building a product, if the,
why you're doing it is
there. And it's burning inside
of you and you, you
can't not do it. You
wake up every day and
you're really strongly believe in
this. I'm sure this business
stuff might not come naturally
to you, but it will
slowly but surely begin revealing
itself to you through relentless
perseverance. And while I do
think that business folks add
some value, I think increasingly
less. So. Yeah, I think,
I think you're right, like
experience. There needs to be
a balance. Like I think
if someone gets an MBA
and we're not trying to
pick on MBAs, but we'll
just use the term MBA
to refer to business folks
and just perfect. I think
that my wife has an
MBA. She knows more about
this stuff than I do.
But I think that if
you expect that you're going
to pop out of MBA
school, out of business school,
ready to like hit the
ground and make a business
that's not going to happen.
Exactly. But I think that
when I meet People who
Had had an internship, you
know, when it became interns
and then built a business,
you know, as after their
MBA, I always like, I
always like programs that balance
the, the academic and the,
and the realistic, like when
I did my software engineering
degree, which is not computer
science, it's actually software engineering.
It was required to get
an internship at the end
of the program. And your
last term, before you got
your degree, had to be
an internship at a real
company. And I thought that
was very practical. They literally
forced you, you could not
graduate unless you worked somewhere.
And I should do that
more like every college should
do that. You know, when
people immigrate to the U
S and they do like,
they want to get an
H one, they want to
get a work visa. Totally.
There's this thing called optional
practical training, right. It's basically
a year after you graduate
from college where you can
work in the U S
to get your, you know,
you get your practical training.
That's something that immigrants do.
But it seems like people
that were born here just
take a year off. You
know, why isn't there a
fifth implied year of undergraduate,
you do your do your
school. And then you go
out and you work for
a year. And we just
know that you have to
go and work for a
year and not work for
a year to make money,
but work for a year
to learn. It sounds like
you, you accelerated that you
did your semester. And then
you're like, okay, I don't
learn effectively like this I'm
going to go work. Yeah,
sure. And there's certainly much
to be said for that.
I'm sure we can have
in discussion after discussion on
this subject. I do think
education right, as men, it
is ripe for disruption precisely
because it's proving more and
more to be less relevant.
In my view, I think
it's less relevant because startups
are increasingly a growing part
of our GDP. In fact,
the internet I was reading
this study was, is pretty
interesting. The internet accounts for
if it were its own
sec section in the, for
3.4% of GDP is across
12 large developed countries, which
I thought was fascinating. And
so it's not going away.
It's here. And now that
we have mobile devices, it's
just creating opportunities for previously
unthinkable, scalable business models. And
so we're just seeing technology
applied to so many different
fields that otherwise didn't have
it, and it's exploding. And
I think education and government
is just lagging behind. So
I do think to your
point that we need to
start seeing some fusion of
behind the textbook and application.
And so I'm excited to
see what comes with that.
I am, it's something that
I kind of have on
my radar quite a bit.
So let me ask you
this though, on your page,
you have education partners though.
Yes. Got the Fordham university.
You've got the inner design
innovation center. Are these partners
that you've selected because they
have a disruptive perspective on
education. Hmm. Great question. I've
never had anyone ask me
that. And also a great,
a great observation there. I
am very passionate about making
sure that that entrepreneurship is
if not a viable, alternative
to higher education. Should you
feel that you, that you
don't learn well in university,
at least supplementary to your
education? If you do indeed
think that this, this path
is for you. And so
the folks over at Fordham
university have a phenomenal data
department. In fact, the, the
actual branch, if you will,
is called the censor of
digital transformation and their students
are just dying to get
their hands on any real
data problems, which I find
interesting. The, the director over
there told me, he's like
John, these problems, you know,
and their kids are bright,
but they're solving theoretical problems.
And they're so out of
touch, I believe. And so
it had occurred to him
that wouldn't it be neat
if we worked with startups
that are working in a
bit of a more dynamic
environment, or we can solve
actual problems for them. And
so time and time again,
now we've, we've given them
a unique problem for them
to crack. And they've taken
a stab at it more
recently, one of our portfolio
companies, band hub, you guys
should check them out. Van
hub.com. They're now the largest
online music, collaboration community in
the world. So just quite
simply, people make music together
on van hub. But so
they had a request where
they, they want it to,
how do I say integrate
some degree of machine learning
to their software, where, where
they can provide audio tracks
of single instruments to the
students, and based based on
timbers and certain subsets and
frequencies, they, the students would
be able to develop a
machine learning system that can
identify what type of instrument
it's listening to. So that's
just been one of the
very, of the many neat
things that we've done with
Fordham and city college and,
and Guttman also something similar,
although not censored around data,
as much as it is
entrepreneur. Yeah. It's really significant
to you. You, you said
a lot there, but I
want to call out that
I liked that the, the
Fordham university center is called
the center for digital transformation.
Someone, someone consciously decided that
that was a name because
it served the it's, it
declared what they were about
transformation, which I think exactly
significant. But I also liked
the idea that you're giving,
I say kids, but you're
getting college students something to
work on. That is real.
That is fundament. That is
a startup, as opposed to
the theoretical crap that we
give them now, you know,
why aren't we going in
to have freshmen year, maybe
be the basics, but by
sophomore year, why aren't we
going in there with accelerators
and real business problems and
making those the assignments totally
agreed that that seems like
such an obvious bit of
low hanging fruit though. I
think that I would suspect
that the, the rank and
file at the colleges would
be afraid that that would
cause dropouts. That would cause
folks to say, Oh, wow,
this is much cooler. If
I quit, I can do
this. The trick would be
to find the balance and
ideally have someone have enough
time that they could finish
their degree and do a
startup at the same time
perhaps. And one thing that
I want to know, and
I think it was a
brilliant observation of yours to
the audience listening this that's,
that's a great business opportunity
of anyone should, should feel
inclined to tackle it. But
by, in large here, entrepreneurs
are always looking for gaps
and opportunities to do something
a bit better. And so
for me, you're entrepreneurially entrepreneurially
minded in that you notice
the gap and you said,
Hmm, wouldn't that be nice?
And so for entrepreneurs is
just this constant. That would
be cool. That could be
done a lot better. And
should you feel strong enough
about one particular thing that
maybe usually it's like an
issue that's close to home?
So there's something out for
anyone listening. That's just constantly
comes to mind and it's
just burning and you feel
really strongly about it. And
it certainly helps that your
technical odds are, if you're
listening to the show. And
then from there, I think
the business acumen just kind
of falls into place and
you may have something real
on your hands, Right? Absolutely.
I like the term though,
that the gap is, I'm
trying to think about where
all the gaps are, right?
There's the gap between the
business person and the technical
person, but upleveling that even
more, I always talk about
the gap between the business
requirement, which is really easy
to say, right? Business business
person says, Oh, well I
want the computer to identify
what kind of instrument that
is. That required very little
energy for me to say
that, and then turns into
a nine month project with
a bunch of graduate students.
You know, so there's a
huge gap there. I think
business people, I think underestimate
how complicated it is to
write good solid software. I,
I agree. And I was
in that book here for
so long. I remember when
I brought in my first
CTO, my first company was
an on demand laundry startup.
So it was very heavy
on the logistics front. And
so pretty much my CTO
was building a layer of
logistics to power our deliveries
and such. And we had
to do things like routing
the, the drivers and, and
prioritizing which deliveries came first
and which, which customers paid
a premium for time sensitive
orders and so on. And
I came into this whole
game of tech startups, again,
having a, not been technical,
but B just kind of
waving my wand and saying,
okay, dude do this. And
I want it done in
three days. And it was
just this incredibly unrealistic expectation
of my CTO and through
developing that relationship and a
lot of arguing and a
lot of headbutting and so
forth, we began to get
to a better and better
place where he understood my
sense of urgency because I
cared only about growing the
business and I started uncovering,
Oh, okay, wow. Front end
development is a thing. Backend
is a thing there's different
skillsets for each. And I
even separated it from the
rest of it. So I
began kind of drawing out
the landscape of all things
technical. And I think from
the perspective of nontechnical people,
a tech person, and I
put that, I was just
using air quotes is just
this one person that kind
of covers the entire spectrum
of the whole thing. And
they can act, they can
work super quickly. And I've
had to learn a hell
of a lot about MVPs
and kind of building and
stages and reiterating and keeping
your ears to the streets,
et cetera. The, the idea
of the MVP though, right?
The minimally viable product, I
think is also a bit
of a concern. I remember
working in startups in the
nineties and I would do,
we would do prototypes. We'd
make, basically we call them
click-throughs right. You know, it
was like, you know, the
windows app that you built
really quickly in like visual
basic six. And if a
business person saw it though,
they're like, wow, I click
on this button. And the
thing I wanted to have
happen happened, it's done right.
Whoa, this is a, you
know, this is a prototype
you show. If you show
a business person, perhaps, you
know, a website that you
auto-generated in node and you
use Twitter bootstrap, they're gonna
think it's amazing. Like we're
finished Totally. One of the
things, that's a, there's a
quick story. And it actually
happened a whole lot. And
something that, that my CTO
at the time still, we
still have a laugh about
it. So this day, but
I can tell he was
totally bitter about it. And
that was whenever we went
to go pitch big clients,
they would ask me, Oh,
well, can your software do
X, Y, or Z? And
I all, because I cared
about closing that deal, I
would say, absolutely, it can
do X and it can
do Y and Z. And
I would just sell up
this incredibly grand Joyce vision.
And then afterwards I'd be
like, Oh shit. And say,
Hey man, you think you
can get that done by
this date. Yeah. That's such
a typical, like, I'm sorry,
but like, yeah. You're not
a unique snowflake and everyone
does that. Can you do
that? Absolutely. Can you do
that? And then, yeah, we've
actually had two story at
Microsoft. We've had times when
one of our VPs would
be giving a speech and
then they mentioned a feature
and then we turned to
each other and we'd say,
Oh, well, I guess we're
making that. That's a, that's
funny man. And then of
course, you know, afterwards after
the meeting, I'd say, all
right, man, listen, I have
a, I have a client
dinner. Alright man, talk soon
and knowing good and well
that he'd have to go
and stay up all night
building the thing while I
was having a steak dinner
with another prospect. So I
can sell them up on
another set of features that
he'd have to go build.
And so it's this vicious
cycle that I've gotten much,
much, much, much better about.
In fact, I would say
I sympathize now more with
the tech people I'm having,
and now that I'm an
active investor in the tech
space. So, but it took
an evolution, I would say.
Yeah, It's definitely a different
kind of difficult though. You
know, they're, they're, they're the
example I always give is
when I worked, I worked
in finance for many years
and I was the chief
architect of a finance company,
but my boss was the
CTO. So I was the
bridge between, you know, the
engineering and the CTO. And
he was the bridge up
even further, like up into
the execs, right? So he
was the business side of
the technical and I was
the technical side of the
business and we, we kind
of balanced each other. And
a chief architect was thinking
about, is this the right
technology stack? And then he
would think about the business
ramifications of picking a, you
know, a technology. So that's
a really refreshing to me.
I wasn't aware of that
distinction there between someone who's
thinking about the business side
of technology. Now, obviously though
his, his, his technical proficiency
was pretty high, you know?
Yeah. He definitely, he definitely
was, but he also had
a, I was the nerd
that they would bring in
for the steak dinners that
didn't know how to order
wine. He was the business
person who was extremely technical,
could write the code, but
also knew how to play
golf. Those kind of balances
when a company gets larger,
I think sometimes you need
your kind of your chief
architect or your chief programmer.
Totally. And that's different from
a CTO. You know, a
CTO is the person that
keeps the CEO and the,
you know, the technical person
from killing each other. Wow,
man, that's funny because in
a startup on the opposite
end of the spectrum, right?
When you have like a
three person team, the CTO
is typically the programmer, the
architect, everything. And perhaps after
seed funding, the CTO essentially
becomes a project manager and
still is hands on and
probably post series. It depends
on, on how, how good
the team is. But one
of the things that I
see often, and, and it's
really kind of sad, but
as, as startups bring in
more and more capital and
they have increasing pressure and
there, there comes a point
where when you raise a
financing round, it's, it's no
longer a relief. You're now
thinking about how you can
turn that money into 20
X, the money that you
got. Right. And so they
started bringing in these high
powered executives and, and sometimes
the original co-founders stepped down
and said VP roles and
all kinds of stuff, but
certainly a story for another
day. Yeah. I think that
in this particular case, my,
my CTO had both an
MBA and a master's in
computer science. So he was
kind of the ideal individual
for that. And I think
that that would be like,
that's the unicorn that you'd
want to find who is
the bridge between the business
and the technical. I think
also though that programmers look,
they want to be CTOs
because it's such a big
title. That's like the old
I want to be. They
want to be the CTO,
the most chief technical person.
It doesn't mean you need
to be the best programmer
or the smartest programmer. That's
smart. Something that I hadn't
considered that I'm going to
run over. And until the
most of the accelerator now,
actually they're, they're over right
next to me hacking away
I'm in the conference room.
Oh, very cool. So, so
folks can check this out
at co-found co found.co and
can they follow you on
Twitter? Yeah, totally. I'm at
John Henry style pretty active on
there. So that's J O
H N H E N
R Y. Style like the
word styl E yeah. So,
so check me out. I'm
happy to jump on a
call or a quick conversation
with anyone who's interested in
learning a bit more about
what we're up to. Very
cool. Well, thanks so much
for your time today, Scott.
Thanks so much for having
me, man. I appreciate it.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again Next week. .